We talked a little bit about some of the tools that we use that
are sort of a framework agnostic to enhance what we can do in
our front-end JavaScript and CSS.
Now we're going to dive a little deeper into the core
front-end framework that we're using to drive most of the
interface to do MVC in this example, which is Vue.
js.
In Vue.
js, if you remember from yesterday,
I'm fond of talking about spectrums to kind of
place different tools inside them.
When you're thinking about sort of building a rich front-end,
there are frameworks that do quite a lot for you.
Up on the right, we have AngularJS, which with version 2.
0 and in previous versions, it really demands a lot of you as a developer.
You really have to buy into the Angular way of writing applications,
and you're probably going to write your entire
front-end to be an Angular web application.
And the same is true of React to a lesser degree.
It is possible, I think more possible,
and I shouldn't say it's impossible with Angular,
but I see React employed more frequently to provide
dynamic features to a component of a web application more
so than I do on the Angular side.
But again,
you're kind of buying into the framework whole hog and writing all of your
code to kind of specifically cater to that framework.
And then on the sort of other end of the spectrum,
you can write JavaScript yourself,
you can write jQuery plugins that do all the fancy stuff on your page
without really any set structure imposed by a framework,
or you can use something like Backbone,
which is quite a bit less opinionated and just provides
sort of a minimum structure for how you can write the
JavaScript which runs your front-end.
And I think Vue actually --- one of the reasons I like it is it
kind of sits in the middle of these approaches.
It's something that is fairly easy to add in to any page,
whether or not you're already using Vue.
As a library itself, it's reasonably light weight.
But,
it also provides some of the key features that make React and Angular useful,
like Ractive two-way data binding,
a JavaScript object model that you can use to update your
data and keep your data out of the Vue.
So I think Vue kind of sits in an interesting middle ground between a large
framework which can take over your front-end code and these other libraries
which you use to implement parts of your logic.
So, some of the key features.
Again, the two-way data binding is definitely one of the highlights.
And the object models,
like the Vue models that you're interacting with to update the data which
drives your user interface is just a plain JavaScript object,
which I've always dug.
There's not like a special scope object or any kind of
fancy affordance by the framework,
you're just interacting with a plain JavaScript
object to update the data of your Vue.
It also provides, much like Angular if you've used that before,
HTML directives,
which you can add into your markup to assign event handlers or
bind event handlers to methods on your Vue.
And you can build fully component-oriented applications,
much like you can with React and Angular using Vue as well, if you decide to use it in that capacity.